hello and welcome back to on the world
warcraft video this time i'm going to be
having a bit of a talk about the tour
and mail now this is definitely a model
who needed an upgrade and the good news
is that this artkraft post actually Yam
had some videos that came along with the
two which is really quite nice to see
and it's all well and good seeing like
pictures of these models but seeing them
in motion is really what ties it all
together so I'm basically just going to
have a better do a bit of a summary of
what the Blizzard staff said I'm just
who can really get their perspective and
then in the background of course you'll
see the Turin model alright so this post
comes from the animation team rather
than being from say chris Robertson
himself it seems like chris is more of a
just a raw art guy whereas this the
animation team stuff is perhaps a step
ahead of that you know after the main
artwork is done and basically first of
all they said that what they really
needed to do is clean up the base
animations so they imported all the old
ones in and apply them to the new model
and then basically just got to work
fixing it up and making it work with the
new animation rigs they improved the
base time animation and then from that
went on to reanimate its idle animation
and a few other things and they did that
by changing how muscles move and how
limbs are carried and overall what they
should do is just make the model will
feel a lot more weighty and beefy of
course it's a tauren so that absolutely
makes sense they should feel extremely
just you know like a they have a lot of
mass essentially another thing they
realized too is that the face really
didn't look too good and not just from
an artistic perspective but even with
the update textures it just didn't feel
that great because there was things like
nose rings and braids which in the old
model didn't move or anything like that
well they've now updated all of those so
that yes they react to the models
movement that should look a lot more
convincing actually and it's just all
those little details which tie it
together just to make the model look a
whole lot better because I mean yeah
that the Turin model at the minute it's
pretty damn ugly in my opinion I really
don't like it so yeah very glad that
that's going to be done now in addition
to fixing up those little facial details
like the new nose rings and the braids
they actually fix the faces as well so
in the past character models only had
basically a jaw bone to be animated
of course now they've got a lot more
than
can add movement to the eyebrows and the
eyes the cheeks and the mouth and with
that they've been able to make the
models properly smile the kangri talk
and that kind of thing so basically this
new system gives them a lot more control
and some of the tools that they've made
allow them to have just that well they
just have the capability to make more
unique animations in an easier fashion
and basically they can save presets and
then just start tweaking from there it
almost sounds like to make an ultra
unique animation with the old system
they would really just need kind of like
need to hack it together whereas this
system better supports that if you don't
know by the way they added a new
animation system in with Missa Pont aeri
afore the Pandaren model and they're
porting all the old models across to
that in terms of their animation quality
alright so next they went into a little
bit of detail about how the updated run
cycle is going to work essentially the
new animation system allows them to do a
lot just a better job reading it makes
it a far easier to touch up many aspects
of the animation so basically they just
talked about how they use controller
curves and various things like that to
manipulate the joints of the model and
just tweak it in a lot more detail so
they could fix it up and then another
thing that they did was they went back
and they deleted quite a few of the old
elements from the old animations and
basically that just gave them more
control and freed up the animation and
controller curves so they could really
just go in depth and make changes which
were a lot more precise what should this
do overall well it's just they're
they're getting a little bit more sore
down and dirty with the model and this
is going to hopefully give us higher
fidelity animations that not only the
animations more smooth but there's more
things moving at once it's all in a very
convincing manner and yeah you're from
that footage that you're you know that's
being shown to you in the background
there I think that it does look a lot
better really it definitely does and so
yeah that's good now next they said that
for the majority of the character
cleanup phase the team focuses on three
main things cloth hair and then the face
this is in terms of animations remember
not just in terms of the raw art so
cloth includes things like the front and
back tabards and the cape and then hair
can be anything from a back to back
ponytail to a front ponytail to pigtails
so
two beards of varying sizes or perhaps a
combination of all of them and then also
they add more facial animations which of
course I was a lot more character and
just brings the model to life and then
occasionally they will fix some minor
posing issues or errors like chittering
and that kind of thing now animation
wise they said that nothing is really
dynamic like dynamically handled by the
engine it's all hand crafted and I guess
this could be a downside to some games
that are trying to go for ultra high
fidelity but for something that is
trying to go for a lot more just raw
style I think that for for world
warcraft this gives it a strong sort of
handcrafted feel and when you just look
at the models and look how they're even
doing shading by painting onto the
textures and things like that it
definitely does sort of emanate this
kind of whole handcrafted vibe that I
think adds a lot of charm and that charm
really is key to pulling it off all
right so next they talked a little bit
about the workload and getting things
done for warlords basically they had to
prioritize a little bit because they
want to have all the player models done
by the time warlords comes then they
need to animate all of the new creatures
and things like that that are going into
the expansion so they have to prioritize
their time basically they broke down
this animation cleanup process in two
phases phase one had all of the
locomotions of walking running and that
kind of thing and then all of the emotes
and spell casts phase two then dealt
with combat animations like attack stuns
and that kind of thing and then finally
phase three is basically a catch-all for
all of the remaining animations so
things like swimming them fishing maybe
collecting some sum or something like
that and basically regardless of the
phase and every animation is tossed up
in some sort of form but the phase one
animations get the most loved since they
are the animations that are seeing the
most I think that's definitely fair
enough but I'd nearly personally put as
much emphasis into those combat line
animations that are currently in Phase
two and but I'm sure that the combat
animations have been completely tossed
out because if they make three phases
and only get to one of them then perhaps
they kind of just need to get more
animators but that shouldn't happen and
from what I've seen all of the
animations they've shown off look great
yeah I think that overall things are
looking pretty solid for the tour and as
for the model itself I like it a lot
more than the older one I think the
increase in fidelity is it's very
welcomed honestly to the old one it
still feels beefy to me at least it
still feels like a Turin and I love the
way that the faces just have got so much
more character to them plus those
wrinkles I think look a bit cooler as
well it's also nice seeing more human
sort of related emotions like emotion
son
you know what I mean and things like
frowning and smiling and laughing and
all those actually ported on to the
Turin in a way that looks convincing I
think it really is pretty damn cool
anyway so that is it for today's M this
video I hope you enjoyed it if you did
just be sure to stay tuned to the
channel for all the latest warlords of
draenor discussion and news I'll
actually be having a video on the new
armor and what action the armor the new
weapon models coming up soon the channel
so M yep lots of good stuff anyway
thanks for watching and I will see you
next time